# QA Automation Task - Search and Map Component 

## Overview

This repository contains a sample automated test for the Search and Map component of the application: https://gruppenplatz.healthycloud.de/HC_GP_Public_Pages/

The goal of this challenge was to explore the component and demonstrate an approach to testing it using Playwright while considering that the feature may change frequently.

## Tech Stack

The automation is implemented using:
•	Playwright
•	TypeScript
•	Page Object Model

The test is currently executed using Chromium, but the framework can easily be extended to run on other browsers.

## Project Structure

- `/tests` - Contains the sample tests verifying search with valid and invalid inputs
-  `/pages` - Contains all the Page Objects with locators and implementation methods for the respective pages
-   `/test-data` -  Contains the test data required for the search functionality

## Running the Tests

### 1. Clone the repository

git clone <repository-url>

cd <repository-folder>

### 2. Install dependencies

npm install

### 3. Install Playwright browsers

npx playwright install

### 4. Run tests

npx playwright test

### 5. View HTML report

npx playwright show-report

### 6. To run the test in playwright UI mode

npx playwright test --ui


## Handling Frequent UI Changes

The Search and Map components are expected to evolve frequently. To keep the automation maintainable, the following design decisions were used:

### 1. Page Object Model

All locators and page interactions are centralized in Page Objects. This ensures that when UI elements change, updates are required in only one place.

### 2. Small Reusable Methods

Page Object methods are designed as small reusable actions, such as:
- entering search input
- selecting dropdown suggestions
- retrieving results
This allows different test scenarios to reuse the same building blocks.

### 3. Test Data Separation

Test data is stored in a separate file so that input values can be modified without changing test logic.

## Improvements

1. Currently the cookie banner handled through UI interaction. For each test run, the cookies state needs to be accepted. This can be improved by using `Playwright storageState` which could be used to store the accepted cookie state and reuse it in tests.
2. The current assertion verifies that some results are generated by checking if the count is greater than 0. But in a production test environment, controlled test data or mocked API responses could be used to make assertions more stable and reliable.
3. More scenarios can be automated to increase the test coverage as the current suite focuses only on one sample test scenario.
4. The automated tests can be integrated into a CI/CD pipeline for faster feedback on changes.
5. Common setup steps such as cookie handling can be moved into reusable fixtures or helper methods if the test suite grows.
